# School-Testing
This machine learning project, written in OCTAVE, attempts to develop an algorithm that can predict whether or not a school is successful in testing based on how funding is allocated to that school. Data for this project was collected on Massachusetts grade schools from the 2018-2019 school year. A school is deemed "successful" in testing if the percentage of their students that meet or exceed expectations with their MCAS scores matches or exceeds the statewide percentage. The criteria used to make this prediction are the number of teacher per 100 students, the average teacher salary, and the average expenditure per student. Data was collected from 467 randomly selected grade schools in Massachusetts. 10% of this data was set aside to be used as a test set, which showed a 63.83% rate of correct classification. 

INSTRUCTIONS:

-To run the model with the data I have collected, open Octave and ensure this folder is open in the directory. Run modelWithAnalysis. This will print the analysis of the data I have collected for my project, and also print a learning curve.

-To run the model with new data, again ensure that this folder is open in the directory of Octave. Run model. Make sure that your data is in a .txt file, and in the same format as projectData.txt (each line has teachers per 100 students, average teacher salary, per-student expenditure, and a 1 if the school tests successfully and a 0 otherwise. Each of these features is separated by a comma, with no spaces). This will print the correct classification percentage, and also print each of the estimates generated by my model.
